README.md, before:

# Spring Boot Demo
This Spring Boot demo application demonstrates several aspects of Spring Boot and surrounding
technologies. It might be a good starting point for Spring Boot projects with a similar technology
stack, or just can be used to write POCs in order to test new technologies or potential solutions
for certain Spring Boot related problems.

One main focus is on Spring Security's OAuth2 authentication and authorization, including login and
logout. The implemented solution does only rely on the the OAuth2 (including OpenID Connect)
protocol, in order to be able to easily exchange the OAuth2 provider, which is here Keycloak running
locally in a Docker container.

As database a Postgres instance has been chosen, running in a local Docker container. Note,
that the relational model might be a bit constructed in order to reflect all table relationships
and the resulting Hibernate entity representations.

### Major Tech-Stack
- Spring Boot
- OAuth2 with Keycloak
- Hibernate
- Flyway
- Postgres
- Docker

### Setup Keycloak Docker Container

1. Get Keycloak Docker image

        $ docker pull jboss/keycloak

2. Start Keycloak in a Docker container named "demo-project-keycloak" and add the Keycloak Admin
User and restart Keycloak with port mapping (localhost:8100->8080).

        $ docker images
        $ docker run --name demo-project-keycloak -e KEYCLOAK_USER=nilsign@gmail.com -e KEYCLOAK_PASSWORD=root -p 8100:8080 jboss/keycloak

3. Navigate to http://localhost:8100
4. Login, use KEYCLOAK_USER and KEYCLOAK_PASSWORD, and navigate to the Administration Console.
5. Press Realm "Master" -> Add Realm
6. Create Realm with the name: DemoProjectRealm
7. Configure "DemoProjectRealm" realm

   7.1 DemoProjectRealm->Configure->Clients->Create
   - Enter as Client ID: DemoProjectRestApiClient

    7.2 DemoProjectRealm->Configure->Clients-DemoProjectRestApiClient
    - Enter as Valid Redirect URIs: http://localhost:8080

    7.3 DemoProjectRealm>Configure->Roles->Add roles
    - Enter as Role Name: ROLE_REALM_GLOBALADMIN

    7.4 DemoProjectRealm->Configure->Clients->DemoProjectRestApiClient->Roles
    - Enter as Role Name: ROLE_CLIENT_ADMIN
    - Repeat, 7.4 with the role names: ROLE_CLIENT_SELLER, ROLE_CLIENT_BUYER
    - Repeat, 7.4 with the role names: ROLE_CLIENT_BUYER

    7.5 DemoProjectRealm->Configure->Manage->Users->Add user
    - Enter as Username: nilsign
    - Enter as Email: nilsign@gmail.com

    7.6 DemoProjectRealm->Configure->Manage->Users->nilsign->Credentials

    - Enter temporary password and press "Set Password"
    - Repeat, 7.5 and 7.6 with the email addresses: ada.mistrate@gmail.com,
    - Repeat, 7.5 and 7.6 with the email addresses: selma.sellington@gmail.com
    - Repeat, 7.5 and 7.6 with the email addresses: bud.buyman@gmail.com

    7.7 DemoProjectRealm->Configure->Manage->Users->nilsign->Role Mappings->Realm Roles
    - Select ROLE_REALM_GLOBALADMIN and press "Add selected"

    7.8 DemoProjectRealm>Configure->Manage->Users-> ...
    - ... ada->Role Mappings->Client Roles->DemoProjectRestApiClient
        - Select ROLE_CLIENT_ADMIN and press "Add selected"
    - ... selma->Role Mappings->Client Roles->DemoProjectRestApiClient
        - Select ROLE_CLIENT_SELLER and press "Add selected"
    - ... bud->Role Mappings->Client Roles->DemoProjectRestApiClient
        - Select ROLE_CLIENT_BUYSER and press "Add selected"

    7.9 DemoProjectRealm>Configure->Clients->Account
    - Enable Service Accounts: ON
    - Enable Authorization: ON

8. The Keycloak setup up is not fully completed yet, as a temporary password was used for the
Keycloak admin user "nilsign@gmail.com". To finish the setup navigate to the following URL and enter
the final password. Otherwise Keycloak requests will return "error": "invalid_grant - Account is not
fully set up"!

    http://localhost:8100/auth/realms/DemoProjectRealm/account/

9. (Optional) Commit the running Keycloak Docker container to a new Docker image. ("4cfca7c93d87" is
the Container ID)

        $ docker ps -a
        $ docker commit 4cfca7c93d87 jboss/keycloak:demo-project-v1

10. (Requires: 9) To start the new jboss/keycloak:demo-project-v1 Docker image again when it was
shut down execute.

        $ docker run -p 8100:8080 jboss/keycloak:demo-project-v1

11. To start a stopped container (e.g. after reboot, etc...) call start with the container name or
id.

        $ docker ps -a

        $ docker start demo-project-keycloak

        $ docker start 4cfca7c93d87

12. Test the Keycloak instance with Postman

    POST REQUEST: http://localhost:8100/auth/realms/DemoProjectRealm/protocol/openid-connect/token

    BODY: x-www-form-urlencoded

    KEY: client_id => VALUE: DemoProjectRestApiClient<br>
    KEY: username => VALUE: nilsign@gmail.com<br>
    KEY: password => VALUE: root<br>
    KEY: grant_type => VALUE: password<br>
    KEY: client_secret => VALUE: c91bf094-8f59-497f-a9cd-76bd5c379509  <br>

    Note, the client secret can be found at
    DemoProjectRealm->Configure->Clients->Account->Credentials

### Setup Postgres

##### Get a Postgres Docker image and start a container

1. Get Postgres alpine image.<br>
    Note, that if you want to use Flyway as well, check here which postgres version is supported
    https://flywaydb.org/documentation/database/postgresql.

        $ docker pull postgres:11-alpine

2. Run the image named "postges:11.0-alpine" in detached mode in a container named
"demo-project-postgres" with "root" as Postgres password.

        $ docker images
        $ docker run --name demo-project-postgres -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=root -d -p 5432:5432 postgres:11-alpine

3. (Optional) List all running Docker containers

        $ docker ps

4. (Optional) List all containers (including the stopped containers)

        $ docker ps -a  


##### Access Postgres CLI from the inside of the container

1. Bash into the running postgres Alpine Linux container with the name "demo-project-postgres"
(Note, on Windows with MINGW64 cmd, prefix command with "winpty").

        $ docker exec -it demo-project-postgres bash
        $ winpty docker exec -it demo-project-postgres bash

2. Switch into the Postgres CLI (psql) within the Docker container with the default user "postgres"

        $ psql -U postgres

3. (Use 2. xor 3.) Switch into the Postgres CLI (psql) from the outside of the Docker container

        $ psql -h localhost -p 5432 -U postgres

##### Create project database with psql

1. (Optional) List all postgres servers users

        postgres=# \du

2. Create a the Demo Project Postgres database. (Do not forget the semicolon!)

        postgres=# CREATE DATABASE demoprojectdb;

3. List all databases

        postgres=# \l

4. Connect to database "demoprojectdb"

        postgres=# \c demoprojectdb;

5. Disconnect from database "demoprojectdb"

        postgres=# \q

Commit message:

Swagger
- Adds swagger API documentation and restricts it to the DEV
environment.

README.md, after:

# Spring Boot Demo
This Spring Boot demo application demonstrates several aspects of Spring Boot and surrounding
technologies. It might be a good starting point for Spring Boot projects with a similar technology
stack, or just can be used to write POCs in order to test new technologies or potential solutions
for certain Spring Boot related problems.

One main focus is on Spring Security's OAuth2 authentication and authorization, including login and
logout. The implemented solution does only rely on the the OAuth2 (including OpenID Connect)
protocol, in order to be able to easily exchange the OAuth2 provider, which is here Keycloak running
locally in a Docker container.

As database a Postgres instance has been chosen, running in a local Docker container. Note,
that the relational model might be a bit constructed in order to reflect all table relationships
and the resulting Hibernate entity representations.

A Swagger API documentation can be found here once the project is running (locally) on the DEV
environment.
- http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html

### Major Tech-Stack
- Spring Boot
- OAuth2 with Keycloak
- Hibernate
- Flyway
- Postgres
- Docker

### Setup Keycloak Docker Container

1. Get Keycloak Docker image

        $ docker pull jboss/keycloak

2. Start Keycloak in a Docker container named "demo-project-keycloak" and add the Keycloak Admin
User and restart Keycloak with port mapping (localhost:8100->8080).

        $ docker images
        $ docker run --name demo-project-keycloak -e KEYCLOAK_USER=nilsign@gmail.com -e KEYCLOAK_PASSWORD=root -p 8100:8080 jboss/keycloak

3. Navigate to http://localhost:8100
4. Login, use KEYCLOAK_USER and KEYCLOAK_PASSWORD, and navigate to the Administration Console.
5. Press Realm "Master" -> Add Realm
6. Create Realm with the name: DemoProjectRealm
7. Configure "DemoProjectRealm" realm

   7.1 DemoProjectRealm->Configure->Clients->Create
   - Enter as Client ID: DemoProjectRestApiClient

    7.2 DemoProjectRealm->Configure->Clients-DemoProjectRestApiClient
    - Enter as Valid Redirect URIs: http://localhost:8080

    7.3 DemoProjectRealm>Configure->Roles->Add roles
    - Enter as Role Name: ROLE_REALM_GLOBALADMIN

    7.4 DemoProjectRealm->Configure->Clients->DemoProjectRestApiClient->Roles
    - Enter as Role Name: ROLE_CLIENT_ADMIN
    - Repeat, 7.4 with the role names: ROLE_CLIENT_SELLER, ROLE_CLIENT_BUYER
    - Repeat, 7.4 with the role names: ROLE_CLIENT_BUYER

    7.5 DemoProjectRealm->Configure->Manage->Users->Add user
    - Enter as Username: nilsign
    - Enter as Email: nilsign@gmail.com

    7.6 DemoProjectRealm->Configure->Manage->Users->nilsign->Credentials

    - Enter temporary password and press "Set Password"
    - Repeat, 7.5 and 7.6 with the email addresses: ada.mistrate@gmail.com,
    - Repeat, 7.5 and 7.6 with the email addresses: selma.sellington@gmail.com
    - Repeat, 7.5 and 7.6 with the email addresses: bud.buyman@gmail.com

    7.7 DemoProjectRealm->Configure->Manage->Users->nilsign->Role Mappings->Realm Roles
    - Select ROLE_REALM_GLOBALADMIN and press "Add selected"

    7.8 DemoProjectRealm>Configure->Manage->Users-> ...
    - ... ada->Role Mappings->Client Roles->DemoProjectRestApiClient
        - Select ROLE_CLIENT_ADMIN and press "Add selected"
    - ... selma->Role Mappings->Client Roles->DemoProjectRestApiClient
        - Select ROLE_CLIENT_SELLER and press "Add selected"
    - ... bud->Role Mappings->Client Roles->DemoProjectRestApiClient
        - Select ROLE_CLIENT_BUYSER and press "Add selected"

    7.9 DemoProjectRealm>Configure->Clients->Account
    - Enable Service Accounts: ON
    - Enable Authorization: ON

8. The Keycloak setup up is not fully completed yet, as a temporary password was used for the
Keycloak admin user "nilsign@gmail.com". To finish the setup navigate to the following URL and enter
the final password. Otherwise Keycloak requests will return "error": "invalid_grant - Account is not
fully set up"!

    http://localhost:8100/auth/realms/DemoProjectRealm/account/

9. (Optional) Commit the running Keycloak Docker container to a new Docker image. ("4cfca7c93d87" is
the Container ID)

        $ docker ps -a
        $ docker commit 4cfca7c93d87 jboss/keycloak:demo-project-v1

10. (Requires: 9) To start the new jboss/keycloak:demo-project-v1 Docker image again when it was
shut down execute.

        $ docker run -p 8100:8080 jboss/keycloak:demo-project-v1

11. To start a stopped container (e.g. after reboot, etc...) call start with the container name or
id.

        $ docker ps -a

        $ docker start demo-project-keycloak

        $ docker start 4cfca7c93d87

12. Test the Keycloak instance with Postman

    POST REQUEST: http://localhost:8100/auth/realms/DemoProjectRealm/protocol/openid-connect/token

    BODY: x-www-form-urlencoded

    KEY: client_id => VALUE: DemoProjectRestApiClient<br>
    KEY: username => VALUE: nilsign@gmail.com<br>
    KEY: password => VALUE: root<br>
    KEY: grant_type => VALUE: password<br>
    KEY: client_secret => VALUE: c91bf094-8f59-497f-a9cd-76bd5c379509  <br>

    Note, the client secret can be found at
    DemoProjectRealm->Configure->Clients->Account->Credentials

### Setup Postgres

##### Get a Postgres Docker image and start a container

1. Get Postgres alpine image.<br>
    Note, that if you want to use Flyway as well, check here which postgres version is supported
    https://flywaydb.org/documentation/database/postgresql.

        $ docker pull postgres:11-alpine

2. Run the image named "postges:11.0-alpine" in detached mode in a container named
"demo-project-postgres" with "root" as Postgres password.

        $ docker images
        $ docker run --name demo-project-postgres -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=root -d -p 5432:5432 postgres:11-alpine

3. (Optional) List all running Docker containers

        $ docker ps

4. (Optional) List all containers (including the stopped containers)

        $ docker ps -a  


##### Access Postgres CLI from the inside of the container

1. Bash into the running postgres Alpine Linux container with the name "demo-project-postgres"
(Note, on Windows with MINGW64 cmd, prefix command with "winpty").

        $ docker exec -it demo-project-postgres bash
        $ winpty docker exec -it demo-project-postgres bash

2. Switch into the Postgres CLI (psql) within the Docker container with the default user "postgres"

        $ psql -U postgres

3. (Use 2. xor 3.) Switch into the Postgres CLI (psql) from the outside of the Docker container

        $ psql -h localhost -p 5432 -U postgres

##### Create project database with psql

1. (Optional) List all postgres servers users

        postgres=# \du

2. Create a the Demo Project Postgres database. (Do not forget the semicolon!)

        postgres=# CREATE DATABASE demoprojectdb;

3. List all databases

        postgres=# \l

4. Connect to database "demoprojectdb"

        postgres=# \c demoprojectdb;

5. Disconnect from database "demoprojectdb"

        postgres=# \q
